Hey folks, today we're going to be
talking about top K YouTube videos. This
is a really popular family of problems.
YouTube videos just being one version.
We hear this about Spotify and others
that gets asked across a wide variety of
companies. I would call it a classic
problem that has a lot of different
variants. If you've been following this
channel for long, you might have seen a
previous video about this. Got some
feedback that that video was harder to
follow. So, we're going to make this
video more digestible. We're going to
build up kind of from the basics all the
way to the complexities that you might
expect to see in an interview itself.
And along the way, we're going to cover
a lot of really rich topics. Stream
processing, approximation techniques,
countman sketch, time series databases.
The goal here is to try to build up your
toolkit for handling problems like this
because in a lot of cases the exact
requirements and the exact trajectory
that you're going to follow in the
interview is probably going to be a
little bit different than what we're
covering here. And the goal is either a
you've worked on data oriented systems
and you've got a better idea for how to
solve problems like this or you haven't
worked on heavy data processing systems
and you're starting to build some
intuition about how these systems work.
That's the ultimate goal. So keeping in
mind that you're not trying to memorize
an answer here. You're trying to
understand the concepts so you can apply
them in a variety of different
scenarios. Now quick plug on this. I
published the guide for this problem.
You can see it on our website. I'll
include a link in the description. This
is basically going to cover a lot of the
same ground that the video covers. We
may touch on a few topics that aren't
covered in the article, but for the most
part, we try to keep the article up to
date with the video. I won't be able to
make any edits to this video, thanks
YouTube. So, you know, if there's errors
or a we'll try to include them in the
description. Now, in the article itself,
you can highlight and make notes. You
can add comments and ask questions. We
try to be active there and answering
them or our community is. And there's
also a feature on our website for
premium users which we call tutor. And
what tutor does is we basically have an
AI that allows you to ask questions
about our articles. And it has in its
context all of the articles and all of
the insights that we have across Hello
Interview. So, it's going to be much
more informed answering questions like
what's Meta's interview process like or
what do interviewers tend to care about
than say generic chat GPT might. Final
comment on this. We have a guided
practice for this problem on our site. a
way for us to work through problems with
you with guidance. And we found this to
be incredibly effective for people who
are especially new to system design
interviews, but also just trying to
knock off some Rust before the actual
interview itself. So, we start out by
giving you some requirements, walking
you through our delivery framework,
which I'll talk about in a minute. And
then what you'll see is you're basically
given a whiteboard just like a real
interview and ask questions like let's
walk through the non-functional
requirements of the system. I can be
lazy and put just a small number. Click
get feedback and then shortly thereafter
I'm going to get a response from the AI
that's going to tell me about how I did.
That's not quite it. The difference that
our guided practice has from a lot of
mock interview platforms is first of all
we actually heavily constrain the AI by
looking at all of the different ways
that our users have gone through
different problems and then judging them
using staff level engineers on the back
end so that we can actually give you
good feedback that's not just generic
slob. The other thing that our guided
practice does really well is it's much
better at teaching. So, it's a really
immersive platform for you practicing
for your system design interviews.
Definitely worth checking out if you
haven't. But let's go ahead and get into
TopK. Now, when you're in a system
design interview, your interviewer is
probably going to plop some question
either verbally they're going to say,
"Hey, design top K YouTube video." Or
they might something on the screen, but
usually you are going to be in the
driver's seat for the rest of the
interview. And what we found through
thousands of mock interviews is that
candidates who have some structure
oftenimes have a leg up to candidates
who don't. Because if you just come in
and you've got a lot of thoughts and you
want to get them down, it can be very
hard to get the right pieces over to
your interviewer that they're going to
need for the evaluation. So we created
what we call our hello interview
delivery framework. And I'm going to
follow this structure in this video just
as an illustration. The way the
framework works is that we are going to
first set up our problem. We're going to
ask our interviewer lots of questions
about requirements for top K. This is
really important and we're going to
spend a fair amount of time here. Next,
we're going to get into core entities,
which are really like the nouns of our
design. They aren't as important for top
K problems, but they're really important
for a lot of problems. So, we'll go
through it anyway, just so you can see
what it looks like. And then we'll come
up with our API for our system. If you
can think about it, having an API gives
us a way to start the problem. If we can
figure out how to design a system that
satisfies our API, then in some sense,
we're done. It's the root of what we
need to build. For some problems, we
will talk about a data flow. We're not
going to talk about it here, but it is
applicable for a lot of back-end data
oriented systems. And then next, we're
going to go into our highle design. This
is what everyone is normally familiar
with where we're going to be drawing
blocks on the screen. With our highle
design, we're going to try to design a
system that minimally satisfies our
functional requirements. And the reason
for that is twofold. One, we want to
make sure that we have a working system
by the end of the interview. And if we
start to optimize prematurely, there's a
good chance that we actually won't be
able to get to all of the requirements.
The second thing is that it's often
times much easier to take a working
system and optimize it than to take an
optimal system and make it working.
You'll find this to be especially true
of real production systems. And so it
should be no surprise that it actually
applies in the interview setting. Now
once we have a working system, then it
comes to deep dives. And these are going
to be the places where we are going to
start to layer on our non-functional
requirements, latency and scaling. This
is also a place where our interviewer
might ask us additional questions. They
might change the game. They might throw
in new requirements. And what we want to
do is leave ample time to be able to go
into these details after we've laid the
foundation of a working highle design.
And so that's what we're going to do
with this top K design. Let's start with
requirements. Requirements can be broken
down into two categories. Our functional
requirements and our non-functional
requirements. functional are really
about what our clients see or what our
users are expecting out of the system.
It's kind of the whole reason the system
exists in the first place. But in many
cases, this is determining what the
system needs to be able to do. The
non-functional requirements are more
constraints. They're going to be how it
does that work. And this might be how
the resources are limited, what sort of
data processing is possible. There's a
bunch of things that we can talk about,
but it is really useful for you to
separate this discussion. Now, sometimes
when people hear an infra problem like
top K, they're thinking to themselves,
well, the requirements, as stated by the
interviewer, are pretty complete. They
told me to build a top K system. Let me
go for it. That is absolutely not true.
And you do need to spend time clarifying
these requirements because there's a lot
of ambiguity. And for this problem in
particular, small changes in
requirements imply dramatically
different solutions downstream. We see
this again and again, especially from
candidates who go into an interview and
then are completely flabbergasted that
the interviewer doesn't like their
solution in many cases because they are
applying a solution that works for one
set of functional requirements to a
different set of requirements. So,
please take your time here and showcase
your ability to build up the
concreteness of your requirements and
the spec that you're building behind.
So, our interviewer told us to get the
top K most viewed videos. Let's go ahead
and put this down on our requirements so
that we have a a really good question
for us to ask is what time windows does
this apply to? If we build a system that
tries to get the top K alltime
mostviewed videos, it's actually not
going to change a lot. I think Gangdom
Style and some Justin Bieber video are
probably near the top and likely aren't
going to change on a day-to-day basis.
It's actually kind of uninteresting. And
so, we may ask our interviewer or make
some assumptions here. But if we ask our
interviewer and say, "Hey, what what
time windows do we want this over?" They
might say, "Well, I want to be able to
do all time. I' I'd like to be able to
find Gangdom Style, but I also want to
find the top K most viewed videos over
the last week, month, maybe even day or
hour. This addition of time windows to
the problem adds a lot of interesting
complexity. It also adds a lot of
ambiguity to our requirements. What do
these time windows actually mean? One
example of this is the difference
between what are called tumbling or
sliding windows. So if I say last week
for a lot of people what that means is
the period between Sunday and Sunday of
the prior week. So what you see with
tumbling windows and that's an example
of a tumbling window is they always
start on fixed boundaries and last for
the entire duration. If someone says
last week, you can assume they're
talking about a tumbling window of
weeks, but it is possible for them to
have been referring to the last 7day
period that has just passed. That would
be an example of a sliding window. So,
right now for me, it is Saturday
afternoon. And on Saturday afternoon, a
sliding window of the last 7 days would
go from the prior Saturday at Saturday
afternoon all the way through to the
current period. And that would continue
to move forward. As time advances, that
window moves forward. That 7-day period
that we're talking about changes. So, a
good strategy in an interview setting is
to make an assumption that things are
simple, especially from the functional
requirements, and then run it past your
interviewer. So, you might say, I'm
going to use tumbling windows. So, the
last month is going to be the period
starting on, you know, the month start,
the first day of the month all the way
until the end of the month. Is that
okay? And the interviewer might go,
sure, yeah, that'll work. I might also
clarify that for week I'm going to talk
about seven days and then for month I'm
going to talk about 28 days. Do I really
want to support calendaring? Absolutely
not. So, we're going to try to simplify
things down here to make our lives a
little bit easier. There are some other
problems that might come out. Like when
we say we want to view all of the videos
over the last month, do we want to be
able to view what happened in October of
2019? Do we want to be able to support
arbitrary time windows? I'm going to go
ahead and say that this is below the
line. I'm not going to support arbitrary
time windows. This is more of a general
analytic system problem versus a more
specialized system that's calculating
top K. And as such, it's a little less
interesting from an interviewing
perspective. But it's useful for us to
be able to say, "No, this is actually
completely out of scope. We can continue
the conversation here for as long as we
want. While I don't think that you
should neglect the requirements, it's
also possible for you to spend too much
time here. And one way that I find
candidates spending too much time is
enumerating a lot of things below the
line, which are basically things they're
not going to be covering in the
interview. So if you have some
additional time, go ahead and tell your
interviewer, these are things that I'm
not going to handle. But if not, keep to
your actual in scope functional
requirements. and then keep moving.
Next, we're going to talk about
nonfunctional requirements. The
non-functional requirements, like I
mentioned, are the constraints on the
system. They're about how the system
does it work as opposed to what it's
doing. If you look in our delivery
framework under the nonfunctional
requirement section, we actually have a
bunch of different categories which you
can use to start to get your
brainstorming going. But keep in mind
from an interview perspective, it's
actually more important that you get
useful non-functional requirements than
that you have comprehensiveness. So
don't memorize this list and then try to
come up with non one non-functional
requirement for each category. That's
going to be completely overkill for this
system. It's probably going to be useful
for us to talk about latency scale, how
the calculations are actually happening.
So let's go through those. We'll start
with latency because everybody likes to
talk about latency for these systems.
With our latency, there's two latencies
that we're concerned with. One is on the
right side after a view happens. How
does it enter our calculations of top K?
And then we have latency on our read
side. Users make a request, they want
the top K most viewed videos. How long
does that take? On the right side, there
is the reality of distributed systems is
that a lot of times things will be
delayed or they'll be out of order at
scale. If you have retries in your
system or if there is network congestion
or packet loss, it means things can
happen and you can learn about them
often times significantly later. So one
non-functional requirement that's useful
for this problem is to say let's pretend
that we have 1 minute between when the
event happens and when it is tabulated
in our top K. This is going to be useful
for two things. One is if you're
thinking forward you can imagine that
we're probably going to use some caching
in this system. And the caching has a
TTL. That's basically how long can we
keep around data before it's too stale
to serve to our users. If we set the
cache TTL to be longer than this 1
minute, that means that we're going to
violate this nonfunctional requirement
because it means that a view could have
happened, you know, say 1 minute ago and
we have a cache TTL of 2 minutes, but
we're serving a cache entry that's 2
minutes old. So we violated this
non-functional requirement. So in some
sense this sets an upper bound on our
cache TTLs which is super useful.
Another thing that it's useful for is
solving that out of order problem. If
you have a video view that happened at
9:59 and 59 seconds, but you didn't hear
about it until say 10:00 and 6 seconds,
you still want to be able to include it
in our top K. We want to make sure that
it shows up. But if that that video view
doesn't appear to us, let's say for 3
minutes, maybe it got lost and put on a
truck somewhere and then eventually
somebody called our service with it,
then we can safely ignore it. So what
this is basically doing is giving us a
pass to ignore events that are happening
more than 1 minute ago, at least at the
time that we process them, which is
quite useful. The next thing we'll talk
about here is the the read latency. For
systems like this, interviewers
typically want you to be pretty
aggressive. And you can kind of think
about things in three buckets. The first
bucket is like cash hits. Those are
usually singledigit milliseconds. It
can't apply in every scenario, but it's
the best experience when it can happen.
And so singledigit milliseconds is the
gold standard for distributed systems.
The in between for for most APIs is
something on the order of tens of
milliseconds. Most well-tuned APIs
operate in this vicinity. They might not
in the limit. So they might have a P99
request that take hundreds of
milliseconds, but tens of milliseconds
is usually a pretty good one. And then
finally, you have search APIs and LLM
APIs that can take hundreds of
milliseconds to seconds or maybe even
minutes. For this system, we're going to
choose that middle ground. We're going
to say tens of milliseconds for to
retrieve the top K. And this is just
going to give us an idea about what kind
of pre-processing or caching do we need
in order to achieve this aggressive read
latency. Next, I'm going to talk a
little bit about scale. It's useful for
us to think about what dimensions of
scaling are important. And for this
problem, there's two dimensions that are
really important. One is the cardality
that we need to handle. Cardality is
like the number of unique items. If
we're calculating the top k of five
items, it's not going to take me very
long at all. I can just sort the list.
If we're calculating the top k of
billions of items, I can't actually do
that sorting in real time. I'm often
times going to need to do some sort of
premputation. So for this, I'm going to
assume that I'm handling billions of
videos. I'm gonna put a TBD on this and
basically tell my interviewer, I'm gonna
come back and refine this estimate a
little bit later. Um, but I want them to
know that I'm thinking about the number
of videos that are going to be included
because it helps me to reason about
storage. The next thing I want to think
about is what kind of right volume do I
need the system to support? And maybe
for this I'm going to assume hundreds of
thousands of views per second. I'm going
to also put a TBD on this because I
don't know if hundreds of thousands of
views per second is reasonable for
YouTube. I might ask the interviewer, do
you have a specific number in mind or
should I try to estimate this? Um, but I
know that this number needs to be big
and I know that this is going to be one
of the harder things for me to handle in
this particular system. So, I'm going to
go ahead and include it here. The last
non-functional requirement that I want
to address before we move on is whether
I can use approximation. I'm going to
say for this problem, I need precise
results or no approximation. And the the
justification for this is the same one
that I used in assuming tumbling windows
for this problem. Getting precise
results is often times much easier than
designing a well setup approximate
system. Now, I'm going to walk into one
of our deep dives to talk about
approximation and how you might use it
to make an even more scalable system.
But generally speaking, for interviews,
most of the time interviewers aren't
expecting you to know about things like
countman sketch, especially at more
junior levels. And so being able to say
explicitly in your requirements, this is
what I need to handle, helps to clarify
that, you know, you're not even going to
consider some of those solutions. I've
got five non-functional requirements
here. I've spent a fair amount of time.
I'm gonna go ahead and stop here. I
might ask my interviewer, are there any
other things that I really need to cover
in my requirements or can I get started?
And, you know, they're going to give me
the the green light to go ahead. Now
that we've got the requirements stated,
our goal is to get to an API. And the
API is basically the foundation on which
we're going to build our highle design.
If we've got a set of APIs that we need
to implement, then we can make sure our
system actually implements those APIs.
And if they have, then they've satisfied
our requirements. So, we're slowly
building up toward the solution. For
this problem, the next step is we're
going to establish what our core
entities are. Core entities are
basically nouns that we're going to use
to talk about the problem. For top K,
this actually isn't super interesting.
We've got a video uh which is basically
what people are watching. We've got a
video view or just a view that we can
talk about. That is when an individual
watched a video. And then finally, we
have a time window or a duration that
we're able to use to query the API. The
reason that we're enumerating these
nouns is because it's useful to use in
designing our API. But this might seem
overly simple because in other problems
like ticket master, there are more
entities that you might need to think
through. It's still a useful exercise
even for an infra problem like this to
create these entities, but we don't
recommend you spend a bunch of extra
time here. Often times the entities and
APIs are a little bit more
straightforward for some of these
backend systems than they are for full
products that you might need to design.
For my API, I need a way for my users to
be able to get the top K videos by view
for a given time period. I'm going to
use a REST API for this. It makes it
easy on my clients. It's very standard.
All interviewers are going to know about
it. And I'm going to query for slash
views slashtopk.
I'm going to pass in a window. I'm going
to pass in a k. And then I'm gonna have
this return basically a video ID, which
is maybe a string, and then a views
count, which is probably an integer. And
it's going to be an array of those. My
clients will just assume that this list
is already sorted. And in some sense, if
I go back to my functional requirements
earlier, I've got my top K most viewed
videos. I've got my top K v most viewed
videos for last month, week, and hour.
That's going to go in my window. And
I've got my tumbling windows. This is
the only API that I really need to
create. So from this I am done. You
might be asking yourself, do I need to
include pageionation here? But remember
that in our requirements we've already
limited K to a,000. So at worst case
this is going to be a couple kilob. It's
not a big payload. You could add it if
you wanted to. You're not going to
likely create infrastructure around that
pageionation just because it's such a
small number. But don't stress out if
you don't need it. The important thing
here is, and especially for more senior
candidates, I don't want to blow a bunch
of time on uninteresting parts of the
interview. My requirements were
interesting. I wanted to spend some time
there. I'm going to spend a lot of time
in my highle design and deep dives, but
it necessarily means that I can maybe
skip a little bit of the time that I
would otherwise spend in my entities or
API for this particular problem. All
right. Now that we've got my
requirements set, I've got my core
entities. I created an API. This is
functionally the contract that I need to
implement. We can move into our highle
design. The highle design, remember, is
about how we can make the system
functional, how we can satisfy those
functional requirements. And we're going
to do this as simply as we can. We're
going to kind of take some shortcuts
here and do some things that are not
scalable. And the reason for that is we
want a base that we can then optimize
and solve those problems in our deep
dives. So that's what we're going to do
for this particular problem. I am going
to take a shortcut and it's one that I
would recommend that you do and I'm
going to assume that there is a video
views topic sitting in Kafka somewhere
uh put together by some other service on
YouTube. Note for this problem I'm not
being asked to design YouTube with a top
K feature. I'm only being asked to
design the the top K feature. And as
such instead of making an API where I
would accept a view I am just going to
assume that someone somewhere is keeping
track of those views in a cafka topic.
This is a really good assumption in a
lot of systems like this. You're going
to have topics that are recording some
of the most important events in your
system and then systems can consume or
subscribe to those topics and then do
the things that they need to do. I'll
link in the description to our
eventdriven architecture blog post. You
don't often times see this show up in
system design interviews, but it is a
very popular way to design systems. And
having big granular topics with
important events can kind of be taken
for granted for a lot of systems. Now, I
want something that is going to consume
these views. So I'm going to create a
service I'll call view consumer that's
going to read off that video view Kafka
topic. I can of course scale this out if
I need to. I'm going to assume these
video views are probably partitioned in
some way so that it's scalable. Remember
we have a ton we have hundreds of
thousands to millions of views that are
coming in every second. So this is going
to become a bottleneck very quickly. But
let's pretend I have a service that's
reading from these and then I need to
write it to a database somewhere. So
let's go ahead and add a views database.
I'm going to use Postgress for now
because it's a convenient way for me to
get started. And we'll try to decide
where we might hit some scaling
limitations that might make this
intractable, but it should definitely
work for now. It'll be useful for me to
have some sort of table structure where
I'm going to store the data. Here, I'm
going to put my video ID and I'm going
to put the number of views in there. And
with this, I've got a really simple
system that's going to be keeping track
of all of the video views as they come
in. Whenever a view happens, my view
consumer is just going to update the
record for that particular video ID.
It's either going to create a new record
with the view count being one or it's
going to trigger an update statement for
a particular video ID and it's going to
add one to the views. And now I have in
this video views table the count of all
views for all videos. This is really
useful. Now we can start to talk about
what the read side of the equation looks
like. So let's go ahead and start with
an API gateway just to make things nice
and standard. I'm going to create a top
case service and that service is going
to make queries to my views database.
Since this is a SQL database, I can
actually trigger SQL queries. So, let's
talk about what that SQL might look
like. I'm going to do a little copy
pasta here so we don't have to see me
type SQL. But what I'm going to do is
I'm going to select the video ID and the
corresponding views from my video views
table and I'm going to order by the
views column. Finally, I'm going to
limit to my top K items. This SQL query
will actually get me the all-time top K
viewed video out of my database,
assuming my data is structured like
this. Now, as a micro optimization, and
I don't encourage you in the highle
design to do lots of optimization at
this point, but it is useful for you to
be pointing out things to your
interviewer that might be suboptimal,
either to address immediately or as part
of your deep dives. This query is only
going to be fast if I have an index on
views. And the reason for that is
otherwise if I don't have this index,
what my database needs to do is read
every single row in the table and it
needs to sort them all and then it will
give me the top K. I think Postgress
might actually implement this with a
heap. I'm not sure. But regardless, it's
going to be dramatically faster if I
have this index. The index on views is
basically like a sorted list. And so
when we run this query, the query
planner is going to go look at that
index and it's just going to go grab the
first k items off that list. It's
actually very fast. So now we've got a
system that both writes our views as
they come in and it reads them. Now some
of you guys in the the comments are
going to be puking right now. You're
going to say, "This isn't scalable.
Well, this couldn't possibly work. I
agree with you and I'm going to make
notes of this to my interviewer. I know
that this system doesn't scale. I'm
going to start with a basic system and
then I'm going to optimize it as we go.
If you are a staff level engineer, you
probably don't need to start with a
system as basic as this. You can skip
some steps and you can trust that you
know your experience is going to be
useful. But if you are a more junior
engineer, then starting with a more
basic solution is going to yield
dramatically better results than if you
try to jump straight to an optimal
solution. So I would highly recommend
it. But with this, I've solved my first
requirement and we can move on to that
next requirement. My next requirement is
to be able to support those window
queries. That's where my user specifies
they want to see the last month. And
with the system as it stands, I can't
answer those because remember, my video
views are summed over all time. I can't
distinguish the views that happened last
month from those that happened last
year. They're all bungled together. And
so I need to make some changes here. The
simplest change that I can make to the
system is to add a timestamp to this
table. I still probably don't want to
record a row for every view. Although I
could do that if I wanted to make the
most basic highle design possible.
Instead, what I'm going to do here is
I'm going to round the time down to the
nearest hour. And this time stamp is
going to represent the beginning of the
hour that that view happened. So I'm
going to have a bunch of buckets for
every video for each of the hours that
they're there. I'm not going to be able
to use the SQL that I had used
previously. I'll paste some more SQL in
here. This is probably going to be the
query that I'll use. And if you're not
familiar with SQL, that's totally okay.
It is important that you understand for
problems like this how data is flowing
and what's happening. So, you need to be
able to reason about this conceptually.
If you haven't learned SQL before, I
highly recommend you learn it. and it's
actually going to be very useful for you
as an engineer. But let me walk you
through what this means. Basically, what
I'm going to do is I'm going to grab all
of the records in this table that fit
within my window. So, I'm going to
choose the hours that fit between the
beginning of last month and the end of
last month. That way, I'm only looking
at views that have happened over my
window. The next thing is I'm going to
group these all together by the video ID
and then sum up those views. I'm
basically going to aggregate them. So I
get a table of video ID to the total
number of views and then finally I'm
going to sort that table and then return
the top K elements out of it. SQL makes
this seem really easy and in some sense
changing this SQL is is not too hard.
But where my previous SQL could return
very quickly by virtue of that index
that I had, I deliberately deleted the
index here because it's not really going
to help me all that much. I think if I
wanted to, I could add an index on
timestamp. And then what that would do
is just make it so that way my query
planner can ignore rows that are outside
the window that I have. But for this
query, I need to read every single
record in the table that sits within
that window. And I have to do all the
aggregation. So this is going to be dog
slow. If the other solution was
suboptimal, this is like sub suboptimal.
And I'm probably going to note that to
my interviewer and say, I realize
there's problems here. I'm going to get
to these in the deep dive. But generally
speaking, this system satisfies my my
requirement. I can query for any of the
windows that I have last month, last
week, last day, and I can get the top K
value even if it's outside my
non-functional requirements of returning
in milliseconds. So, this gives me the
base to get into some of those deep
dives that we talked about, and that's
what we'll do next. In terms of
optimizations and deep dives, let's
start with the lowest hanging fruit
first, and then we'll progressively get
to the more complex topics. This gives
us the most bang for the buck from an
interviewing perspective. We can impress
our interviewer with how quickly we are
able to move through things and save the
slow stuff that requires a lot of brain
power for a little bit later. So the
first thing that might stick out to you
all is on the read side. Right now the
query takes a long time and our promise
to our users is that we would return in
milliseconds, tens of milliseconds. And
so we are not satisfying that
non-functional requirement. How can we
make it happen? Your brain should start
to light up here with two options,
caching and premputation. Let's talk
about what both of them would look like.
So for caching, what this might be is we
set up a reddis cache over here. We can
use a read through cache. So we can go
and query the reddis cache and see if we
have an entry for the top K query that
we have. The keys of the reddis cache
might be the time window, maybe some
truncated or rounded timestamp, and then
the values are basically the responses
that we're going to give to users. If
it's there, then we can return our
results to our users in singledigit
milliseconds, the gold standard. That
would be amazing. If we can't hit the
cache, if we have a cache miss, then we
need to go to the database and get the
actual value. Remember, this is going to
take forever right now. So this is a
very bad situation. But when we get
those results, we can simultaneously
return them to the user so that they get
them as fast as possible and to write
them in the cache so that subsequent
requests are going to be much faster. As
a solution, this is pretty elegant,
right? We just added a cache and now say
99% of our requests are going to be
served in singledigit milliseconds.
Amazing. and only a few of our requests
are going to end up hitting that
database and then taking minutes to
hours of of time. Maybe on average we're
actually in the double digit
milliseconds. But this is a pretty poor
design overall. With distributed
systems, what you want is consistency.
The more predictable things are, the
more effectively you can build on top of
them. And this service is Russian
roulette. I might get a cash hit. I get
the best service I've ever worked with.
It bl it's blazing fast. Or I might get
the worst service that I've ever
touched. I'm timing out. It's taking
hours. What the heck is going on? So,
this is not a particularly good
situation because of the cash misses.
But the nice thing about the cash misses
is they're somewhat predictable. We know
that we are going to have a new last
hour every hour. And so we can
anticipate when we're going to have the
cache need to be refreshed. And so a
better solution is probably one where we
actually do some premputation. So let's
add a top kron service. And this is
going to every hour run that query and
populate the cache. Now when our top
case service queries the cache, we can
hope that it's always there that we
never have a cache miss even as the hour
expires. This is preferable because we
don't have a Russian roulette scenario.
But it does have some downsides. What
happens if this cron fails? What do we
do then? Well, a terrible solution and
and one that might might come to mind is
to have the top case service hit the
database then. So if we can't find it in
the cache, we'll go get it ourselves.
And the problem with this is this topk
cron is very infrequent. It's low load.
We're basically making one request an
hour or maybe a few requests an hour to
the database. But when we have a failure
here, suddenly our top case service is
making thousands, maybe even millions of
requests to the database simultaneously
because they're all going, why do I not
have my cache entry? I'll go get it
myself. So, we've amplified the load on
the database dramatically. If this cron
was failing because the database was
underload to begin with, we've made it
so much worse. So, we almost never want
to do something like this. What we might
do instead is to basically keep our
entries in our cache for a bit longer.
So maybe we will store the window and
then some truncated timestamp as the key
in our reddis cache and we'll set the
TTL to something long like I don't know
30 days. Now when our top case service
queries the cache it's going to try to
get the most upto-date information for
the last hour but if it can't find it
it's just going to fall back to the last
window. Now, this violates our SLAs's,
right? It it means that we are not
satisfying that one minute time between
when an event occurred and when it was
tabulated, but it's a better failure
mode than the alternative of tearing
down our system and making it really
hard to bring back up. So, it's a better
option from that perspective. So
overall, you can probably improve the
read performance dramatically by simply
precomputing with a cron that runs on
predictable intervals and stores
information in a cache. That's the
easiest way to scale and meet our read
requirements. With the read side
partially solved, let's turn our
attention to the right side of the
equation, which is just a disaster in
the current design. I want to take a
step back to really put some numbers to
this problem so that we can think about
this more quantitatively. And I'll
caveat this a little bit. For hello
interview in general, what we find is
that a lot of candidates jump into
problems with a lot of back of the
envelope estimations that don't actually
help them in their design. And
interviewers aren't looking to see
whether you can do mental arithmetic as
a condition of your employment. If they
are, they suck. You shouldn't work for
those companies. So generally speaking,
what they do want to see is how well
justified are the decisions that you're
making. In this case, I know that these
rights are bad. I know that there's
billions of records in here and that
I've got way too much load on this
database, but I don't really know how
bad it is. So, let's try to figure out
how I might be able to arrive at this.
First, I might ask my interviewer to
give me some numbers, like how many
views are we expecting? And maybe they
tell me there's 70 billion views per day
on the platform. Generally speaking,
when people are designing systems,
they're not usually thinking about daily
or yearly or hourly quantities. They're
mostly thinking about what's the number
of writes or reads or transactions per
second. The easy way to convert a views
per day to views per second is to divide
by 100,000. The actual number is 84
something. You don't need that actual
number. You are doing mental arithmetic
here. So 70 billion over a 100,000.
Well, that is 700,000 views per second.
This is a really useful quantity for me
because it tells me exactly how many
writes I'm making to my database
currently. Remember, every view is a
write. So I am triggering 700,000 writes
per second. Um, Postgress generally
speaking might be able to handle 10,000
writes per second. Probably not going to
be able to handle 700,000 writes per
second, especially if we have more
complicated indexing. There are some
certain conditions on which you could
support higher load on Postgress, but
this is just telling me, hey, I've got a
lot of writes here that I probably can't
handle. Another quantity that I might
want to know about is about the size of
this table. I want to know whether this
data is becoming insurmountably large.
And the way that I'm going to do that is
I'm going to start with the number of
videos. Maybe I'll make an assumption
here or maybe my interviewer will tell
me. Let's assume they tell me that there
are eight not billion not views videos
on the platform. This is a lot. I would
assume most of those videos are never
being viewed. I'm going to multiply this
by a simple quantity. I'm going to say
there's 8 bytes per video ID and then 8
bytes for the views. That's 16 bytes.
This is 644
* 16 billion. I don't have a quantity
here. This is a billion. A billion is
also a gigabyte. So it's 64 gigabytes
for storing a table of all video IDs and
their respective counts. That number is
pretty large. A lot of engineers
probably aren't working with data sets
that big on a regular basis. But when it
comes to data processing systems,
gigabytes are not that impressive. In
general, there are, you know, multi-ter
NVMe storage that, you know, even a a
run-of-the-mill database would be able
to support. So, we don't have to be
afraid of this number in isolation. We
do have to be afraid of this number when
it multiplies out. And like remember
with my design I am storing video views
on an hourly grain. So I have one of
these tables every hour. So 64 * 24
that's the number of daily gigabytes
that that would take. Now do keep in
mind that this is a little bit more
efficient because it is what's known as
sparse. My video views are only being
recorded when a view actually happens.
And the vast majority of videos in this
catalog are getting zero views. They
don't have any rows in this table. So
this is a strong upper bound on the size
of each of these basically partitions in
my data. But it does tell me that hey
this is somewhat manageable as long as I
can make sure that I'm not keeping too
many copies of this. So now I've got two
quantities here. The 64 GB tells me a
bit about the storage and then the 700K
tells me a bit about the throughput. So
let's come back here to talk about our
rights. Well, our video views Kafka
topic could easily handle this 700,000
views per second. Kafka is very
scalable. These messages are only a
video ID and maybe a time stamp. So they
are tiny and this can scale out
indefinitely. The way that this would be
scaled out is the video views topic
would be partitioned by video ID. So
basically, if I was a consumer of the
video views topic, I would probably want
to choose a limited number of
partitions. Rather than swallowing the
entire global fire hose and filtering
down to the videos I care about, I can
actually only read those video views
that are going to be important to me.
That gives me a chance to scale out my
view consumer. And when we think about
right volume, this should be our first
instinct. We should try to figure out
how we can partition or shard the inputs
that are coming into us. So our video
views topic is already going to be
partitioned by video ID. Our view
consumers can be partitioned by video
ID. So we'll have each view consumer
will handle a subset of those video ids.
And then finally we can shard our
Postgress database. We can have it such
that each instance only contains the
video views for a subset of those video
ids. I earlier gave you a number. I said
Postgress generally speaking can handle
say 10,000 writes per second. This is a
rough ballpark. But if we make that
assumption, we would need 70 shards of
Postgress and probably 70 view consumers
in order to consume this full write
volume. Now that isn't without its
downsides. First of all, it's a ton of
resources, but it also means that when
we query, we need to query separately
each of the shards. Now, fortunately,
this is pretty basic operation if we
just want the top k most viewed videos.
What we can do is make the same query to
every shard. So, if we want the top
1,000 most viewed, we're going to say
for each shard, shard one, shard two,
what is your top 1,000? And then we're
going to merge them all together to get
the global top 10,00. you can
mathematically guarantee that the global
top 1000 must be within all the union of
all of the local top 1000s. So our query
trivially scales. Now of course it's not
nice that our cron job has to query 70
databases but arguably that's going to
be 70 times faster than what it's
currently doing with a singular
instance. And we already have a lot of
affordances that we've developed here to
allow this cron to take additional time
because one of the things that you'll be
worried about when you're querying lots
of shards like that is some of those
requests will probably fail and they'll
need to be retrieded or sent to a
replica or something along those lines.
So our first line of defense for scaling
out the right volume in this problem in
kind of the most naive way is by
partitioning and sharding. After
sharding and partitioning, we have to
get a little bit more creative in order
to improve the performance of our
system. In this case, what we'll do is
we'll work through our scaling rights
pattern, which is basically a list of
different strategies that we can employ
in order to improve our right
efficiency. You can find this on our
website as part of the premium offering
or I'll cover it here. So the next step
for us in scaling rights is for us to
consider batching or aggregation.
Currently every video view means a right
to our views database. But our video
views table is at the hourly grade. So
we don't really care about every write
as it happens. We only really care about
the sum total of video views over a
tumbling window hour. So can we reduce
the rights to our database by
aggregating or or pre-agregating or
batching in our Vue consumer? Sure we
can. So what might that look like if we
don't use any technologies? Well, what
we could do in our view consumer is we
could keep a map in memory of all of the
views that we've received and haven't
flushed out to the database. Then every
hour what we can do is write those into
the database. And in that sense our
problem is going to largely go away. The
number of writes that we're going to
make is now bounded not by the number of
views where 700,000 times a second but
bounded by the number of videos that had
views in a particular hour. You would
expect that that number is a lot
smaller. It is a problem that we are
waiting to do all of our writes all at
once at the end of the hour. So that
means our database is sitting around,
it's chilling and then suddenly it's
slammed. But it's slammed with
substantially lower volume than this
constant streaming updates that we are
otherwise sending. Now if we do this
ourselves, the problems mount from here.
The first problem that we have is
failures. So if this view consumer fails
while it has an aggregate in memory, you
might wonder do we lose those views?
It's obvious that the Kafka topic will
always be the source of truth. So as
long as this Kafka topic has retention,
then we can always have our view
consumer rewind in the Kafka topic and
then read from there to catch all the
views that it missed. So even if we had
a view consumer fail, say 45 minutes
into the hour, what it could do is then
start reading views from the beginning
of the hour and then hopefully
eventually catch up. That would be a
good recovery strategy. The problem with
that is that it requires a lot of scale.
If we set our view consumers and we
scale them such that they're able to
process 700,000 views per second, they
don't have any headroom to catch up.
Pretend I am that view consumer that's
45 minutes behind. I'm still processing
700,000 views per second cuz that's my
capacity. And I'm always going to be 45
minutes behind. I'm never going to catch
up. If we double the amount of capacity
that we have, so we have 1.4 million
views per second of view consumer
capacity, then that means that we are
able to work through 1 second of backlog
every 2 seconds because half of our
capacity will be taken up by just
staying up with the views as they come
in. And then the other half, the
remaining 700,000 allows us to start to
catch up. And so that means if we are 45
minutes behind, it's going to take us 45
minutes to catch up. And that means that
we are definitely going to be late for
the next hour calculation. We're going
to be 30 minutes late. So the problem
with using a Kafka topic with retention
in order to catch up after a failure if
we're keeping really big windows like
this is that it takes either too much
capacity. We need to multiply the view
consumer fleet so it has a lot of wasted
resources or it's too slow to catch up.
The solution that we would implement is
to have some sort of checkpointing.
Maybe every five minutes we write the
sum of views that we we have in that
window to S3 and then if our view
consumer fails it can read the latest
checkpoint so it can catch up to that 5
minutes and then it can use the Kafka
view stream to catch up from there. So
we're no more than 5 minutes behind.
That strategy of checkpointing is so
common in streaming systems that they
built an entire framework around this
and it is called flink. So in this
problem we could go and do a bunch of
aggregation in our view consumers or we
could do the windows in flink. We'll say
flink hourly windows and what that looks
like is we have a flink job that runs in
a cluster and then Flink is going to
handle our checkpointing internally and
then Flink is going to have special
sources like for Postgress or S3 or for
Reddus and so what's going to happen
here is that Flink will manage
internally that checkpointing and then
we'll write our video views on the
hourly grain as they occur. Now, Flink
is a funny technology to trot out in
interviews in part because Flink is very
powerful. A lot of system designs can be
expressed entirely in Flink jobs, which
is nice. You can write a Flink job,
which is just a lot of Java code, deploy
it to a cluster, and then get rid of
some or much of what you see in this
picture. The problem with doing that in
an interview setting is that sometimes
interviewers are not familiar with
Flink. So you might be expressing a
solution that they don't understand or
they might feel like you're
oversimplifying the problem or maybe
hiding all of the complexity behind a
technology. And then what they're going
to want you to do is to explain how all
the pieces work. Can you explain to me
Flink's checkpointing algorithm? or can
you explain to me how tumbling windows
work internally to Flink? So I'll say in
general I would use Flink sparingly in
your interviews but many people are
familiar with this application of using
Flink as an aggregation platform
basically for streaming data and so this
is generally a safe application for this
problem. And then what we've done here
is we've substantially reduced the
number of shards that we're going to
need in our views database in part
because Flink is taking the bulk of the
load in processing these views and then
producing just the hourly grained
updates before we write it to our
database. Okay, so we're slowly chipping
away at this problem and we've got our
read latency down much better. our right
throughput to the database has has
decreased. We still have a problem here
in that the cron is making these very
expensive database queries. And I want
to elaborate a bit on how expensive they
are and then talk about how we can start
to to optimize this. So if we think
about our database queries, what they're
doing is they are grabbing all of the
video views across all of the hours that
are included in the window. The
pathological case that we need to solve
here is that we have an entire month
that we're trying to aggregate. So we've
got 24 * 300
hours that we need to pull. And what
we're going to have to do is grab every
row by hour, which is probably going to
be on the order of hundreds of gigabytes
of data. We have some efficiency cuz
this is sparse. Remember, not all videos
have views every hour. So, this isn't a
full 64 GB times that 300 number, but we
still have hundreds of gigabytes of
data. And then in our database, the next
step is they are going to aggregate by
video. So for each video, we're going to
get all of the hours and we're going to
sum those up. So now we've got total.
This is probably going to be tens of
gigabytes. Most of our videos are going
to have views over the month. We should
expect that this is less sparse. And
this is not sorted in any way. These are
just aggregates. And then finally, we
have to go and sort this. And the sorted
value especially if we take it down to
just the top K is just kilobytes of
data. Like our output is not that big.
But we are processing an enormous amount
of data in order to get there. And like
I said, whenever we are processing an
enormous amount of data, this should be
a cause for pause. Now a lot of people
will think I've got an enormous amount
of data. That sounds like a place where
I should use Spark or Hadoop. And I
think the instinct there is probably a
good one. What Spark or Hadoop allows
you to do is to scale out this
computation. This is parallelizable.
If I wanted to, I could have an
individual machine for every video that
adds across all of the hours. And then
in the the sorting, what I can do is
have each machine sort a subset of the
data. and then they can pull that data
together and then merge sorted list.
That's known as a reduce operation in in
Hadoop. And while that does allow us to
scale this out, it doesn't make this any
more efficient, we're still throwing an
enormous amount of resources and
hardware at a problem that we can
probably think more deeply about in
order to solve. So what what can we do
here? Well, one thing to note is that
our hourly windows are landing in the
database, but we end up wanting to
aggregate these. And so, one thing we
might ask ourselves is, is there a way
for us to have our day, month video
views? Now, whenever Flink is doing the
processing at the hourly grain, it's
going to update not just one record, the
hour record with the time stamp and the
total views. It's also going to increase
all of the views for the day and the
month that that hour is a part of. So,
we will 3x the number of writes that we
will do into our database. But now when
we want to do our reads, we can actually
read directly out of these tables. So
we're saving a bunch of resources. I
think this is a much more elegant
solution than doing all of this
aggregation
um on the flip side. And one thing that
it allows us to do is it allows us to
index on timestamp and on views.
Remember when we had our alltime queries
because we had the index on views and
there was no timestamp. We basically had
a sorted list of video ID by views and
our query planner could just grab the
top K elements off that list. It was
really fast and efficient. With this
setup, we get the same thing because at
a given time stamp, we are going to be
sorted by views. So all we need to do
and this is basically a B tree
operation. We're going to grab out of
the sorted list a by timestamp and by
views the top viewed items for that
timestamp for that granularity. So now
our top cron is running effectively in
you know a constant time or near
constant time operation rather than
needing to do a bunch of aggregation and
sorting. Now, some people might be
saying to themselves, okay, well, Flink
is already doing these aggregations. Why
don't we just have Flink do it? Can't
Flink just make hourly, daily, monthly
windows? Then, instead of needing to do
some sort of aggregation over here, we
can just land those as they're ready. In
fact, if you've got those hourly, daily,
monthly windows, you can also have a
Flink operator that goes and sorts them
and then returns the top K. And that is
a potential option. You could have Flink
output directly to this Reddis cache in
some sense obviating both the cron and
Postgress. The reason that I don't think
that this is a great option for
interviews in general is that
interviewers don't want to turn this
into one big giant flink box. If they
do, they probably want you to go into
detail about each of the operators in
each of the jobs. And I don't know about
your preparation, but if you want to
make it very flinkentric, maybe getting
up to speed there is a gamble you want
to take. But it's probably not the right
trade-off for most people in their
preparation. but it's something that you
could potentially do here. Just going to
make a quick note and an edit here that
you'll likely want to include a table
that has the video views all time and
keep that much like your hourly, daily,
and monthly. You'll be adding to this as
well. It won't have any timestamps, but
this also can include an index on views
and be queryable whenever we want to
answer questions related to that first
functional requirement. So if there was
any confusion, yes, we'll keep that
table. With that, we've reached the end
of what I would consider the core of
this particular solution. We've got an
optimized read path that returns in
double-digit milliseconds. We have a
right path that is properly sharded and
partitioned that pre-agregates data and
indexes it in a sensible way so that
queries can be answered quickly and
users get the results they're expecting.
For a junior through senior candidate, I
think if you hit many of the points
here, you're in a pretty good spot as it
pertains to the interview that I've just
described. For staff level candidates,
there's a lot more that we could
potentially discuss here. We can change
the rules a bit. Well, what if we need
to support more windows or topics? What
if we need to support sliding windows?
Those are all fair game for staff level
interviews. Another thing that staff
level candidates will oftentimes go into
is how do some of these things work in
particularly ugly scenarios. The views
database is sharded. What if I have all
of the views for a particular timestamp
for one shard but not another shard? How
do I detect that downstream? And how do
I make sure that my clients understand
the results? Some of these things can
get a little bit dicey, but they're also
very detailed. And so it's actually
difficult to formulate the problem until
you're actually in the weeds. But staff
level candidates will often times notice
problems like that. Problems like how do
we handle outof order events or how do
we think about timestamping the events
as they enter our aggregation. These are
all pretty rich topics. Now each
interview is going to be different and
as I mentioned interviewers might change
the requirements on you or they might
just give you a different set of
requirements to start with. I wanted to
spend some additional time in this video
talking about a few variants just to
give you an idea and a starting point
for how you might address these pieces.
I want you to keep in mind that your job
as a candidate is not to memorize every
possible answer to a top K problem. It's
to internalize some of the lessons that
we've walked through around aggregation
and batching and caching so that when
you have a new requirement, you can
address it on the fly. Interviewers are
not expecting you to invent novel
algorithms. They are expecting you to
have a very solid grasp on the basics so
that you can adapt and they want to see
your thinking through the process.
Everybody's going to come up with a
different solution and that's okay.
There's not one right answer to this
problem. It's way more important that
you show how you work through it. Now,
one of the earlier things that we did in
requirements for this problem is that we
forced our way into a tumbling window.
Tumbling windows are much simpler for us
to deal with. Remember that tumbling
windows mean that we are centering our
last hour at the beginning of the hour.
With a sliding window, we're going to
keep moving that window forward as time
progresses. And usually there's a notion
of how often that window is moving. You
could do this continuously. That would
be a little bit crazy. Or you could do
this once every minute. And what that
means is that functionally you have more
windows to deal with. If you move it
every minute, then with a tumbling
window you have one window every hour.
With a sliding window you have 60
windows every hour. And this gets only
more perverse if you think about sliding
windows over monthly periods so on and
so forth. So how can we start to think
about sliding windows in a way that is
tractable and doesn't require us to boil
the ocean in terms of storage and
memory? Well, one way to look at this is
to think about how we can actually come
up with a value of the total number of
views in a sliding window. If we wanted
at time 60 to find out the total number
of views in the last hour, we would go
over every minute in that hour and then
we would sum the total number of views.
I'm not even going to do the math here,
but add all these numbers together and
that is the quantity for the last hour
at time 60. At time 61, we will have one
new minute of views. So maybe we added
six new views in that minute.
Additionally, some of those views
happened now more than 60 minutes ago.
At minute 61, the very first minute are
no longer in our window. So if we think
about how a sliding window works, what's
happening is we can take the last
window. we can add the most recent
minute and subtract the minute that
happened 61 minutes ago. What that will
give us is a change. So we have a + 6
minus 5 and that means that we've added
one. This isn't actually all that
complicated. And knowing this this
intuition, we can start to think about
how our design might need to be adjusted
to facilitate sliding windows. So let's
try to walk through that. Currently, we
are aggregating at an hourly level. If
we want to do sliding windows that move
every minute, we are probably going to
need minute grain data. So, let's go
ahead and get that. Now, we need to
store this data because we need to have
these minutes available. So let's go
ahead and move our video views table and
we will have a video views
minute table that has a video ID views
and a timestamp. Instead of having our
video views for an arbitrary hour, day
or month, how about we make this the
last hour, day, or month and get rid of
the time stamp entirely? This is just
going to be the current value of the
sliding window. Same thing with video
views all time, but we're only adding to
this. Now, we can change our index to
only be on views. So, what would we do
here? Well, when the video views come
in, we're going to have Flink aggregate
them per video into a video ID and a
view count for that minute. At the end
of the minute, Flink is going to flush
this to our views database. So, we're
going to immediately write it to this
video views minute table, all of the
values. Now, we need to update our
sliding windows. What are we going to do
there? Well, what we're going to do is
if we want to update the hour, we're
going to grab the minute that happened
61 minutes ago. We're going to get all
those views and we're going to subtract
that value. the minute that we just
added, we're going to add. So, we'll
take whatever we're going to add minus
the videos that need to be decremented
and then we will add the difference to
our sliding window. That will update
this table including the index. And now
when our top cron needs to make this
call, it's going to be able to query
those tables. Now, our top cron can no
longer run once an hour. Our top cron
actually has to run more frequently. It
has to run every minute and our cache
needs to not only have the truncated
timestamp per hour, it needs to have
basically the minute of that time stamp.
So this is going to run more frequently,
but this is super efficient. Remember,
since we have these tables already
sorted by views, all we have to do is
grab the top item and we already have an
index or top k items off this and we
already have the index here. So you know
functionally the data is already ready.
Now what this does is it increases the
amount of writes that we're going to
need to do and we're making reads from
the database which is a little bit
unusual. We're basically using this as
state for our system. But that would be
one solution that you could use to
implement sliding windows in a system
like this while retaining all of the
performance characteristics that we
talked about. Now, like all of our other
solutions, there are ways that you could
do this in in Flink as well. We could
use Flink sliding windows. Flink has
both tumbling windows and sliding
windows. And the way that this works is
that Flink will create a new window
every interval. This is called the
window slide. We've been talking about a
window slide of 1 minute. So, we will
create a new monthlong window every
minute. And that window will be a monthl
long. It will continue to accumulate
over that time. If you're grimacing
right now, you're you're thinking about
this correctly because what this is
doing is it's multiplying the number of
windows that we need to maintain by the
number of minutes in a month. So, we
could externalize this storage to
something like S3 or rocks. There's a
lot of ways that we could try to
optimize this flink job, but these
sliding windows, especially with the
slide that we're talking about, are not
going to be very efficient. Now, that's
not to say that you can't build the
solution that I just described natively
in Flink. You could keep as state these
minute level views externally and then
have those recorded and checkpointed
alongside the Flink jobs. It's entirely
possible for you to wrap this up in a
Flink job. I am saying that Flink's
native sliding windows will be quite
inefficient at this task. I'm going to
make one more note on the sliding window
solution that generally speaking,
sliding windows that are a month long
probably don't make sense from a product
perspective. It's always a bit dicey as
a candidate to try to push back on
requirements from an interviewer. So, if
they tell you you need a sliding window
at a month, you probably need to figure
out how to make it happen. But if they
haven't explicitly stated that, it might
be a good idea for you to show some
judgment and say, "We probably don't
need sliding windows at this
granularity. Sliding windows at an hour
might make sense, but at a month, maybe
a tumbling window is fine. Those videos
aren't going to change very much anyway,
and so people aren't expecting that
they're going to shift every minute for
you. I think being able to show the
tradeoffs and and what would be required
being able to say here is the additional
infrastructure or here's the additional
memory that's required to make this
feature and then being able to say well
we can dial this back for higher windows
and then we can keep it granular at
lower windows is often times a nice set
of trade-offs that really shows
engineering maturity and then oftentimes
something that I hear from candidates at
higher levels. The last variant that I
want to cover is if we relax that
requirement to have a precise result. If
we wanted to have an approximate
solution to the problem. Well, why might
we want to do this? Well, Top K, we have
to think about the applications for
YouTube. This is probably supporting
some of their trending applications.
Maybe it's a signal into their
recommendation system as a candidate
generator, but in a lot of cases, it's
going to be secondary to the core video
playing and advertising experience.
Google is going to want to make this
inexpensive to run. They don't want to
throw a tremendous amount of hardware
getting the exact right top K results if
they can do it much more affordably with
an approximation. A good rule of thumb
to ask yourself as an engineer and then
also for design interviews is who's
going to notice if the answers are wrong
and then do they care? And I think the
answer for YouTube top K is probably not
in this case. I think approximations are
a good option. Now for an interview
setting I don't know that jumping into
an approximation solution is a good idea
from a strategic perspective because
they tend to be more complicated. But it
it is a a potentially good idea that you
know if you've got extra time and you
want to showcase to your interviewer,
this would be one way to do it. Now to
to to kind of walk you through this, I
want to talk about where we would use
approximation in this solution. You'll
note that the really expensive part of
this problem comes in our views database
where we're retaining these relatively
large tables of video views and their
timestamps.
And the the challenge here is that this
could potentially get somewhat large. We
aren't going to retain these
indefinitely. So we would probably start
to expire rows as their timestamps uh
became old. And remember that we are
basically upper bounded by 64 gigs. So
when you start to talk about counts and
approximation, I want you to hear count
min sketch in the back of your head.
Countman sketch is an approximation
algorithm. You can think of it kind of
like a bloom filter but for counts. And
it's a way to really efficiently do two
things. One is countman sketch will
remember things that it's seen. So you
will pass it identifiers. They can be
numbers or strings. And then you can
query the countman sketch given an
identifier and get an estimate for how
many times it's seen it before with some
known error bounds on it. The core idea
of countman sketch is it functions a lot
like this hash table that allows us to
retrieve the number of views for a video
ID but with substantially less space and
then obviously some error that we're
going to throw on top. So let me show
you what this looks like using a little
simulator that was put together by
someone in our comments. I'm actually
pretty impressed by this. I will note
that this is a little confusing because
we are using lots of different types of
hashes here which is not really how
countman sketch works. Usually each of
these hashes would actually just be a
salt. You might even use the same hash
and then just use different bits of it.
But the core idea is that each of these
hash functions is going to take as input
whatever we want to pass in the
identifier and then it's going to give
us an index based on the width of our
sketch. So in this case I have eight
columns in my sketch. I am going to if I
want to add something to my sketch and
have it remember it. So foo what's going
to happen is we are going to take each
of these hash functions apply them to
that input and then the output will be
the index that we should increment. So
look what happened here. I added foo for
this first row. this hash function
outputed I guess this would be zero or
seven depending upon how you want to
look at it and then we incremented the
counter at that index. Same thing for
each of these subsequent hashes. So what
I basically got is my sketch was changed
by the input of fu. If I added fu again
the hash of fu hasn't changed. And so
what you'll see is that each of the
indexes is the same. Each of those
numbers is going to be incremented to
the same value. And so I'm going to
basically see all those ones become
twos. Now if I wanted to add bar to my
sketch, it's going to increment
different indexes. In some of those
cases, those might be overlapping. Like
foo and bar both have the same hash
under this city hash. So that's now
three. But basically we now have this
set of counters and we have incremented
at the index of the hash of the ID for
both fu and bar into that. So that's how
we add items to a sketch. Now when we
want to query the sketch, we can ask it
how many times have you seen this thing
before? So maybe I'm going to put hello
here. And then what it's going to do is
it's going to hash hello. And it's going
to look at the indexes of the hash
function. Um, and it's going to grab the
value there. And then it's going to grab
the value from each of these rows,
whatever it happens to be. And it will
take the minimum of those. So you can
see in dark blue, I'll hit it a few
times. Those are the cells that it's
querying. And the minimum of those cells
is zero, which means that I've never
incremented hello into this sketch. If I
wanted to query fu, I would get two
because the minimum of all of those
cells at the indexes that those hash
functions coincide to is two. The
problem that we have is these collisions
right here. We have some cells that are
three. And so the worst case scenario
would be that we grab those cells and we
assume that fu is actually three. But
how would that happen? It would require
that we have collisions on all of the
cells that fu has occupied. And the
probability of the collision is based on
the number of hashes. This is the the
height of the sketch and the width of
the sketch, the number of columns. So
basically countman sketch allows me to
remember various identifiers maybe video
ids for our problem and then we can
query those identifiers and then
retrieve an approximation actually a an
upper bound on the count that it has
been added to the sketch. Okay, cool.
We've got countman sketch. It allows us
to keep track and remember the counts of
things. But how do we query the sketch
for the top k items? We can't actually
just go to the sketch values and then
divine what items were in it. In some
sense, the sketch forgets the
identifiers. It just remembers their
imprints. And so we have to be clever
and pair this sketch with something more
traditional like a sorted list. So a
typical process would be like this. When
a view comes in, we will add the count
to the sketch for that identifier. That
will increment all of those indexes. So
that way we can query them later. We are
immediately after we add we're going to
query the sketch for the approximate
count for that item because we at that
moment we remember the identifier that
thing did get a view at that moment and
so it is a potential candidate for our
top K. So we're going to query its value
and return that here. So maybe we have
video one has actually been seen a
thousand times. Now at that point we
will go and update a sorted list or a
heap. And the idea is this sorted list
doesn't need to be all 4 billion videos.
This might be just a few thousand
videos. But in general what we're
expecting is that this sorted list will
get updated every time something
important happens. And so the sorted
list, we can basically restrict those
updates to only view counts that are
greater than the bottom of the list. We
don't really care about view counts on
items that are way below the the top K.
They don't matter to us until they reach
that threshold where they're actually in
the running for the top K. So in
practice, what you might do is you might
use something like Reddus for this.
Reddus has two data structures. It has
native support for countman sketch. So
you would use the CMS.incerby
in order to add I think it has a query
command. I forget exactly what it's
named. And then each view the view
consumer would grab the ID. It would
increment. It would read that value.
Then it would check to see if it was
greater than the lowest number in the
sorted set. And then it would add that
item or update that item into the sorted
set. When our users come in and they
want to query the top K, they'll go to
the Reddis cache, they will query those
values and they will return them back to
the user. Now, of course, using a
volatile store like Reddus for this it
we have data loss potential. So, you
would want to consider how you maintain
replicas, how you use appendon file and
other pieces there. This gets a little
bit hairy because when we add an item to
Reddis cache, if Reddis cache crashes
and we have to restore it, it's
difficult for us to know whether that
item was added in what what we have in
our backup. Basically, what we can
restore from the append only file. But
remember this is an approximation. So
like if the system introduces some
error, it's not mathematically optimal,
but it's probably not breaking the bank
in terms of the outputs to our users.
Remember, they may not be able to
validate this. Now, another option for
us is to put the countman sketch inside
of Flink. Basically, we would have the
sketch be part of the state that Flink
manages. It would checkpoint that state
and keep it externally. The sorted sets
and heap would basically be in memory.
They would be persisted durably so that
they can recover. But this would
actually be probably a more rugged
option for us and then periodically
Flink would flush that out to something
like Reddus so that it could be read by
our topase service and returned via an
API gateway. Again, the Flink solution
here kind of feels handwavy, right? it
interviewers are going to want to go
into a lot more detail about that, but
it has this nice property of doing this
all in memory and that means it can be
lightning fast. Like if our goal is to
minimize the amount of hardware that we
use for this problem, that is probably
one of the best solutions that we could
employ. Now, so far we've talked about
what this looks like for tumbling
windows where we're only adding. I want
to make a couple notes here. countman
sketch. If you go read the Wikipedia
page, you're going to see that you can
add and query. There's no subtract
operation. And that's partly true. If
you have what are called turnstyle
operations where you are only removing
things that you had previously added,
then you can guarantee a lot of the same
properties. If you look on the article,
we have some links to references that
explain what this looks like. And so if
you wanted to do this with a sliding
window, you would do much the same thing
that we did earlier. You would basically
add views as they happen and then you
would remove them 60 minutes later or 1
month later. You could do that by having
a separate consumer group that reads off
of the Kafka topic. Or you could
potentially have Flink retain all of
that in state. That seems a little bit
duplicative, but you would basically add
and remove items so that the sketch
represents the sliding window. And then
the sorted list or heap needs to be
sized accordingly. We need to have some
buffer. So that way items that are low
and then might be gaining into the top K
when other items fall out of the top K
as in they are decremented. But you
might use a sorted list or a heap of
size like 5,000 and you're likely going
to cover all of the scenarios that you
might care about. Of course, there is
mathematically a scenario where 5,000
isn't enough, but remember this is also
an approximation. So we kind of don't
care about those situations that a are
never going to happen, but b only affect
our result in these very edge case
scenarios. So this would be an example
of a highly optimized approximate
system. I think if interviewers are
looking for this solution, they're
basically looking for whether you've
studied this problem before. And I don't
think it's a particularly good interview
question. So if you get one where the
interviewer was expecting this, I
apologize. I think it's esoteric, but I
hope that this was interesting for you
as you think about how you might design
systems at even higher scale. I would
not probably recommend starting with an
approximate solution in an arbitrary
interview for the one risk that the
interviewer may not actually understand
a lot of what we're talking about here.
That is a real risk that we've seen from
some of our users in comments where
their interviewers just don't quite get
it. And yeah, it it can happen. So, be
careful and try to veer toward simpler,
more proven solutions like we talked
about earlier on in this video. Before
we wrap up, I wanted to give some
commentary on some specialized databases
that people are commonly asking about
for these problems. The specialized
databases have some downsides that I
think make them disfavorable for using
in an interview setting. The worst case
scenario is your interviewer is just not
familiar with the technology that you're
bringing to the table and they've got
two options there. Either a they say use
something else. pretend like that
doesn't exist in which case all of your
knowledge goes out the window or they
ask you to explain it at a much finer
granularity. They basically want you to
explain the internals of whatever
database you're using. In which case, if
you've got that knowledge and you've
been working with it for a while,
fantastic. But a lot of times that's
going to sound a lot like the general
solutions that we've been talking about
where instead of talking about hyper
tables and continuous aggregates in time
scale, we're talking about, you know,
how we do pre-agregation and then how we
query it from our database. It's just
easier in most cases for you if you're
preparing for interviews to think about
solutions that work with simpler
technology stacks than ones that work
with very specialized technology. And I
know somebody in the comments will say
no, none of this is very specialized.
Agree to disagree. In terms of the
options here, I've got a few opinions.
Time scale is an extension on Postgress.
They basically take the table metaphor
and they call it hyper tables. So
basically tables with time series which
is more efficient for both storing and
retrieving time series data and then
they add some additional capabilities on
top of that like continuous aggregates.
The continuous aggregates basically
generates new tables with aggregated
data as the data is coming in which is
really cool for our purposes because
those generated tables can have indexes
on them which means that we can have
continuous aggregates for our tumbling
windows with indexes on the aggregate
views. So we can make the querying
really efficient. In some sense, this
being built on Postgress saves it from
the problems that other time series
databases might have. Now, in the like
more strict time series database, we've
got Prometheus. Did I spell that right?
Yeah. In Influx DB, Prometheus is used
in a lot of observability stacks. If you
use data dog or New Relic or Graphana,
you've probably either used Prometheus
directly or use something like it. These
are specialized and they're intended to
basically support a single screen graph.
It's like we want data points over time
for one series. And the capabilities
there are really good. You can upsample
and down sample. The problem comes when
you want to look across screens, across
graphs, across series or in Prometheus
language across labels. If we want to do
a top K query, we want to go and take
all of the series for each of the videos
and then we want to sort them. And these
databases aren't going to help us out at
all in that process. So, we're going to
have to query the database a billion
times for each of the series and then
sort it externally. And at that point,
you're kind of like, well, what is this
doing for me? There are probably some I
think suboptimal solutions using some of
the techniques that we talked about
earlier where you can cache or you know
run some pre-processing but in general I
don't think they fit this problem quite
as elegantly as some of the
alternatives. So I would shy away from
using these. The final category are what
I would call like real time OLAP uh or
streaming OLAP uh solutions. Druid,
Pino, Pino, Click House. Generally
speaking, these are going to provide
some variant of materialized views that
allow us to do that aggregation internal
to the database. So like Flink has
subsumed a lot of the challenges of
streaming frameworks around
checkpointing and state management,
these OLAP databases have subsumed a lot
of the problems that are associated with
streaming analytics use cases. That is
both good and bad. that it's a blessing
and a curse for this problem in that
it's kind of makes it trivial. It's just
a configuration that you would have on
some of the input. And as a result,
there's just not a whole lot to talk
about in an interview setting. It's also
very likely that your interviewer is not
familiar with all three, maybe even some
of them. So, you know, same caveats
apply. I if I was preparing from
scratch, I would not spend a lot of time
trying to memorize or understand some of
these more specialized databases or
frameworks. Instead, I would invest my
time in really trying to understand data
flows, some of the core patterns around
aggregation, catch caching, etc. And
then what you'll find is that those
things are going to basically be
implemented in some of these
technologies. you'll give yourself a leg
up in understanding why the tech exists
and then how it works under the covers
so that you're ready to go when the
interview happens. All right, folks. We
have covered a lot of ground in this
breakdown. We've covered stream
processing, approximation techniques,
countman sketch, time series databases,
the works. I hope this was useful for
you. I think if you're at the end of
this video and you're going, "Wow, some
of that was overwhelming." I want to,
you know, let you know that, yeah, some
of it was probably beyond what you'll
need in an interview setting. So, go
back to some of those core deep dives if
you're really looking to say, all right,
what do I actually need to be ready, but
I want to encourage you that
understanding how data flows through a
system is the unlock for infra style
interviews. And if you can get a handle
on how big are the tables and where are
they flowing and when is the compute
happening sooner or later and what does
the caching look like, you're going to
be able to solve a lot more problems
than if you just try to memorize
solutions and parrot them out in an
interview setting. Please hit up the
comments if you've got questions or
suggestions. The article that we have
linked will probably have more upto-date
updates as we go just because the video
will be fixed. But we really appreciate
your time and hope this was useful. Till
next time.